		      -------------------------
		      Tech Squares Constitution
		      -------------------------
			 Adopted 22 May 1984
		       Amended 19 January 1988
			 Amended 1 March 1988
			Amended 16 August 1994


		     Article I.  Name and Purpose

     Section 1.  This organization shall be called Tech Squares, the
Square and Round Dance Club of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, hereinafter referred to as the club and MIT, respectively.

     Section 2.  The club shall regularly hold modern Western-style
square dances.

     Section 3.  The club shall hold classes to introduce beginners to
square dancing.


		       Article II.  Membership

     Section 1.  Upon graduation from the class a person becomes a
club member.

     Section 2.  A person who has not graduated from the class must
dance club level to become a club member.  There may be other
requirements as stated in the Bylaws.

     Section 3.  Any club member who meets the attendance requirements
specified in the Bylaws shall be a voting member.

     Section 4.  Membership shall include the right to wear the club
badge.  No one but club members may wear the club badge.

     Section 5.  Only voting members may vote at club meetings or hold
office.


		       Article III.  The Class

     Section 1.  The club shall hold a class during each Fall and
Spring academic term at MIT to introduce beginners to square dancing.

     Section 2.  The class shall be open to anyone.

     Section 3.  The Bylaws shall state criteria for graduation from
the class.

     Section 4.  The class shall be coordinated by the Class
Coordinator.


			Article IV.  Officers

     Section 1.  The elected officers of Tech Squares shall be the
President, Treasurer, Secretary, Publicity Coordinator, and Class
Coordinator, ranked in that order.  They shall be elected as specified
in the Bylaws.

     Section 2.  The term for officers elected in the spring shall be
seven months, with an option to continue in office for an additional
five months without re-election.  Officers elected in the fall, if
any, shall hold office for five months.

     Section 3.  The President shall be responsible for the overall
operation of the club and be its official representative to the square
dance community and to all callers and cuers hired by the club.

     Section 4.  The Treasurer shall be directly accountable for the
finances of the club.

     Section 5.  The Secretary shall handle all club correspondence
and be responsible for minutes at all club and Executive Committee
meetings.

     Section 6.  The Class Coordinator shall chair the Class
Committee, which shall be responsible for the organization of the
class, and shall appoint Class Assistants to assist in administering
the class.

     Section 7.  The Publicity Coordinator shall chair the Publicity
Committee, which shall be responsible for all club and class
publicity, and shall appoint Publicity Assistants to help.

     Section 8.  The Executive Committee shall appoint a Booking
Director, Rooming Director, Banner Raid Director, and
Archivist/Historian.  Their term of office shall each be one year.

     Section 9.  The Executive Committee shall appoint two
Members-at-Large and other officers as specified in the Bylaws or as
deemed appropriate.  Their term of office shall not exceed one year.
The Executive Committee shall solicit suggestions from the club for
appointed positions.

     Section 10.  The Members-at-Large shall serve as liaisons between
the officers and other club members.  The Members-at-Large shall be
appointed by the Executive Committee three times a year: at the
beginning of the Fall, Spring, and Summer terms at MIT.
Members-at-Large may not serve more than two consecutive terms.

     Section 11.  No person may hold two or more elected offices
concurrently.  A person may hold an appointed position concurrently
with any other position, including another appointed position.

     Section 12.  Upon petition by at least 20% of the voting members
of the club or one-half the members of the Executive Committee, the
Executive Committee shall call a club meeting to discuss the removal
of an elected officer.  The officer may be removed by a vote of
three-fourths of those present and voting.


		 Article V.  The Executive Committee

     Section 1.  The club shall have an Executive Committee which
shall be responsible for the affairs of the club between club meetings
and is empowered to make such decisions as it feels are necessary to
efficiently carry on the business of the club, except as otherwise
governed by the Constitution or the Bylaws.

     Section 2.  The Executive Committee shall be comprised of the
five elected officers.  Executive Committee members are encouraged to
attend Executive Committee meetings.

     Section 3.  Officers shall have additional and more specific
duties as defined in the Bylaws and as the Executive Committee finds
necessary for the functioning of the club.

     Section 4.  The Executive Committee shall regularly hold meetings
with at least one meeting between each club meeting.  Additional
meetings shall be held within one week of a request by either the
President or by any two members of the Executive Committee.

     Section 5.  Each elected officer shall have one vote on the
Executive Committee.

     Section 6.  A majority vote of the voting members of the
Executive Committee shall be necessary for any decisions to be made by
it.


			Article VI.  Meetings

     Section 1.  The club shall regularly hold meetings, called club
meetings, to review the club status and conduct club business.

     Section 2.  There shall be at least one club meeting during each
of the Spring and Fall terms at MIT.  Additional meetings may be
called by the Executive Committee or by petition of any five voting
members.

     Section 3.  Club meetings shall be open to all club members
except as otherwise noted in the Constitution or Bylaws.

     Section 4.  A quorum of the club shall consist of one-third of
the voting membership.  At club meetings, no business other than
reports and discussions shall be carried on unless a quorum is
present.

     Section 5.  The most recent edition of Robert's Rules of Order,
Newly Revised shall decide all questions of procedure not specifically
covered in the Constitution or in the Bylaws.

     Section 6.  All club meetings shall be chaired by the highest
ranking elected officer present.

     Section 7.  Decisions of any club meeting shall be binding upon
the Executive Committee and the club officers.


			 Article VII.  Dances

     Section 1.  The club shall hold weekly dances, called club
dances, year-round allowing exceptions for holidays and similar
occasions.

     Section 2.  In addition to club dances, the club shall hold other
dances, called monthly dances, at the discretion of the officers.

     Section 3.  The club shall choose a club level for its square
dances.  Club dances and monthly dances shall be at club level, except
as required for the class.

     Section 4.  The club may hold dances and workshops at other
levels.


		    Article VIII.  Club Employees

     Section 1.  The club shall hire two permanent employees to
provide calling and cueing at club dances: a square dance caller,
called the club caller, and a round dance cuer, called the club cuer.

     Section 2.  The club caller and the club cuer shall be members,
but not voting members, of the club for the term of their employment.
They may wear the club badge.  They may attend club meetings only at
the invitation of the Executive Committee.

     Section 3.  The selection of a club caller or club cuer must be
approved by the club at a club meeting.

     Section 4.  No person may be an elected club officer and a club
employee concurrently.

     Section 5.  The Executive Committee may hire callers and cuers
for monthly dances.  Such employees do not become club members by fact
of their employment by the club.

     Section 6.  Except as mentioned in this article, the Executive
Committee may not hire employees without the prior consent of the club
at a club meeting.


			Article IX.  Amendment

     Section 1.  This Constitution may be amended at a club meeting by
a two-thirds vote of those present and voting.

     Section 2.  A proposed amendment to the Constitution must be
submitted in writing to the Secretary.  The Secretary shall distribute
copies of the proposed amendment to the club at least four weeks
before the club meeting at which the amendment will be voted on.


			   Article X.  Law

     Section 1.  The club shall be a recognized MIT student
organization.

     Section 2.  This Constitution is the governing law of the club,
except where it conflicts with the rules of MIT.

     Section 3.  The club shall abide by the rules and regulations of
the MIT Association of Student Activities, hereinafter referred to as
the ASA.  This Constitution shall be subject to the approval of the
ASA.

     Section 4.  The obligations of the club shall remain in effect
unless specifically negated.


		      Article XI.  Ratification

     Section 1.  This Constitution shall be ratified when approved by
a two-thirds vote of those club members voting.  A provision for
absentee ballots shall be made.  At least four weeks' notice shall be
given of the club meeting at which the ratification shall be voted on.
